docs: Added tutorials on writing a sink (#16070)
vectordotdev/vector: docs/tutorials/sinks/1_basic_sink.md

Let's write a basic sink for Vector.

Create a new rust module in `src/sinks/basic.rs`.

# Imports

> Let's setup all the imports we will need for the tutorial:

Author: > kind of ties in with Spencer's comment but, I wonder if the wording here could be improved as well, that this isn't necessarily _all_ the imports that will be needed. But that it is more like the set of necessary ones for the common sink infrastructure shrug

I'm not sure I see the problem? This is all the imports we will be needing..

> Let's setup all the imports we will need for the tutorial:

Reviewer: yeah idk what I was thinking here :dont mind me:

> ```rust

Reviewer 2: Maybe too much for the basic tutorial, but should we mention what each of the imports is "for"?

Author: I think that would just be annoying to do here, but hopefully it is explained through out as each import is used.

#![allow(unused_imports)]
use super::Healthcheck;
use crate::config::{GenerateConfig, SinkConfig, SinkContext};
use futures::{stream::BoxStream, StreamExt};
use vector_common::finalization::{EventStatus, Finalizable};
use vector_config::configurable_component;
use vector_core::{
    config::{AcknowledgementsConfig, Input},
    event::Event,
    sink::{StreamSink, VectorSink},
};
```

# Configuration

The first step when developing a Sink is to create a struct that represents the configuration for that sink.
Since our sink has no configuration options, we just create a simple struct:

```rust
#[configurable_component(sink("basic"))]
#[derive(Clone, Debug)]
/// A basic sink that dumps its output to stdout.
pub struct BasicConfig {
    #[configurable(derived)]
    #[serde(
        default,
        deserialize_with = "crate::serde::bool_or_struct",
        skip_serializing_if = "crate::serde::skip_serializing_if_default"
    )]
    pub acknowledgements: AcknowledgementsConfig,
}
```

> Note the `configurable_component` option. This is used by Vector to generate documentation from the struct.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note the `configurable_component` attribute. This is used by Vector to generate documentation from the struct.
```

```rust
#[async_trait::async_trait]
impl StreamSink<Event> for BasicSink {
    async fn run(
        self: Box<Self>,
        input: futures_util::stream::BoxStream<'_, Event>,
    ) -> Result<(), ()> {
        self.run_inner(input).await
    }
}
```

`StreamSink` is an async trait with a single async function: `run`. The main parameter
to this function, `input` is a stream of the events that are being sent to this sink.
We pull from this stream to send the events on to our destination.

In order to handle lifetime issues that arise from using `asynctrait`, this function
simply calls another method `run_inner` that is implemented directly on `BasicSink`.

Let's look an `run_inner`:

```rust
impl BasicSink {
    async fn run_inner(self: Box<Self>, mut input: BoxStream<'_, Event>) -> Result<(), ()> {
        while let Some(event) = input.next().await {
            println!("{:?}", event);
        }

        Ok(())
    }
}
```

Our sink simply pulls each event from the input stream and prints the debug representation
of the object.

# Importing to Vector

Import this module into Vector. In `src/sinks/mod.rs` add the line:

> ```rust

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```diff
```

Could be a more readable representation. Same for the other "insert" examples below.

# Acknowledgements

When our sink finishes processing the event, it needs to acknowledge this so that this
can be passed back to the source.

We need to make a couple of changes to our `run_inner` function:

```rust
    async fn run_inner(self: Box<Self>, mut input: BoxStream<'_, Event>) -> Result<(), ()> {
        while let Some(mut event) = input.next().await {
            println!("{:#?}", event);

            let finalizers = event.take_finalizers();
            finalizers.update_status(EventStatus::Delivered);
        }

        Ok(())
    }
```

First we need to make `event` `mut` so that we can update the events status when
it is delivered.

Next we access the events finalizers with the `take_finalizers` function. We then update the
status with `EventStatus::Delivered` to indicate the event has been delivered successfully.

If there had been an error whilst delivering the event, but the error was not a permanent
error, we would update the status with `EventStatus::Errored`. Vector will attempt to redeliver
this event again.

If the error was a permanent one that would never work no matter how many times we retry
delivery, we update the status with `EventStatus::Rejected`.

> # Emitting events

Reviewer 2: Link to the `docs/spec` file for this?

metric when an event has been delivered to update the count of how many events have been
delivered.

There are two events that need to be emitted by the component.

## BytesSent

`BytesSent` instruments how many bytes the sink is sending downstream.

First we need to get the number of bytes that we are sending. Then we need to emit the event.
Change the body of `run_inner` to look like the following:

```rust
    async fn run_inner(self: Box<Self>, mut input: BoxStream<'_, Event>) -> Result<(), ()> {
        while let Some(event) = input.next().await {
            let bytes = format!("{:#?}", event);
            println!("{}", bytes);

            emit!(BytesSent {
                byte_size: bytes.len(),
                protocol: "none".into()
            });
        }

        Ok(())
    }
```

## EventSent

`EventSent` is emmitted by each component in Vector to instrument how many bytes have been sent 
to the next downstream component.

Add the following after emmitting `BytesSent`:

```rust
      let event_byte_size = event.estimated_json_encoded_size_of();
      emit!(EventsSent {
          count: 1,
          byte_size: event_byte_size,
          output: None,
      })
```

> 

Author: I'll add these to the next tutorial where we can get errors.

> 

Reviewer: 👍

# Running our sink

> 

Author: I'm going to add this to a future one.

        self: Box<Self>,
        input: futures_util::stream::BoxStream<'_, Event>,
    ) -> Result<(), ()> {
        self.run_inner(input).await
    }
}
```

`StreamSink` is an async trait with a single async function: `run`. The main
parameter to this function, `input` is a stream of the events that are being
sent to this sink. We pull from this stream to send the events on to our
destination.

In order to handle lifetime issues that arise from using  [`async_trait`]
(https://docs.rs/async-trait/latest/async_trait/), this function simply calls
another method `run_inner` that is implemented directly on `BasicSink`.

Let's look an `run_inner`:

```rust
impl BasicSink {
    async fn run_inner(self: Box<Self>, mut input: BoxStream<'_, Event>) -> Result<(), ()> {
        while let Some(event) = input.next().await {
            println!("{:?}", event);
        }

        Ok(())
    }
}
```

Our sink simply pulls each event from the input stream and prints the debug
representation of the object.

# Importing to Vector

Import this module into Vector. In `src/sinks/mod.rs` add the line:

```diff
 #[cfg(feature = "sinks-azure_monitor_logs")]
 pub mod azure_monitor_logs;

> +pub mod basic;

Reviewer 3: Should we talk about adding feature flags here?

> +pub mod basic;

Reviewer 3: I might include some notes about only building Vector with your new component `--no-default-features --features ...` to aid contributor development cycles.

Author: I was thinking to avoid talking about features here because I thought it would be just extraneous details that could confuse the issue, but this is a very valid idea! 

I should add a section on `vdev` too..

Let's write a basic sink for Vector. Currently, there are two styles of sink in
Vector - 'event' and 'event streams'. The 'event' style sinks are deprecated,

> but currently a significant portion of Vectors sinks are still developed in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but currently a significant portion of Vector's sinks are still developed in
```

this style. A tracking issue that covers which sinks have been converted to
'event streams' can be found [here][event_streams_tracking].

This tutorial covers writing an 'event stream' Sink.

Create a new rust module in `src/sinks/` called `basic.rs`.

# Doc comments

It's always good to start with some module level comments to explain what the

> sink does.

Reviewer: 🤔 😆  I wonder if this is a high/low context scenario... when I read that, I wonder if the low context thinkers will consider that optional. A more strict wording could be "Provide some module level ..." , or something like that. 
non blocking ofc

Author: Yeah, good catch!

# Configuration

The first step when developing a Sink is to create a struct that represents the
configuration for that sink. The configuration file passed to Vector on startup

> is deserialized to the fields in this struct so the user can customise the sinks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is deserialized to the fields in this struct so the user can customise the sink's
```

}
```

Note the `configurable_component` attribute. This is used by Vector to generate
documentation from the struct. To do this, doc comments must be included above
the struct - Vector won't compile if they aren't.

We also include a single member in our struct - `acknowledgemets`. Every sink

> needs to be able to control how it handles acknowledgements - do connected
> sources need to wait for this sink to send the message before acknowledging
> that they have received the events. We will make this a configurable option.

Reviewer: I'm no expert on e2e acks but this wording is confusing to me.
The below is an attempt, but I'm not sure how accurate it is.
The "to send the message" is ambiguous, and the "they have received the events", who does the "they" refer to?

```suggestion
needs to be able to control how it handles acknowledgements. This struct
configures if and how connected sources need to wait for this sink to send the
message before acknowledging that they have received the events.
```

Author: It's quite a complicated subject. I'll defer to Vectors docs to explain it better.

}
```

Our sink simply pulls each event from the input stream and prints the debug
representation of the object.

# Importing to Vector

## Feature flag

Each sink is kept behind a feature flag which allows copies of Vector to be
build with just the components required. We need to add this feature to the 
`Cargo.toml`.

```diff
  sinks-azure_blob = ["dep:azure_core", "dep:azure_identity", "dep:azure_storage", "dep:azure_storage_blobs"]
  sinks-azure_monitor_logs = []
+ sinks-basic = []
  sinks-blackhole = []
  sinks-chronicle = []
```

Add it to our list of log sinks:

```diff
sinks-logs = [
  "sinks-amqp",
  "sinks-apex",
  "sinks-aws_cloudwatch_logs",
  "sinks-aws_kinesis_firehose",
  "sinks-aws_kinesis_streams",
  "sinks-aws_s3",
  "sinks-aws_sqs",
  "sinks-axiom",
  "sinks-azure_blob",
  "sinks-azure_monitor_logs",
+ "sinks-basic",
  "sinks-blackhole",
  "sinks-chronicle",
```

## Module

> Import this module into Vector. In `src/sinks/mod.rs` add the line:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Import this module into Vector. In `src/sinks/mod.rs` add the lines:
```

      - stdin
```

This simply connects a `stdin` source to our `basic` sink. 

## vdev

Vector provides a build tool `vdev` that simplifies the task of building Vector. Install
`vdev` using the instructions [here][vdev_install]. 

With `vdev` installed we can run Vector using:

```sh

> vdev run ./basic.yml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
cargo vdev run ./basic.yml
```

Right? Unless you've built it and put it into your path?

Author: I did [this](https://github.com/vectordotdev/vector/tree/master/vdev#installation)..

Reviewer 2: Ah, yep - that works. I've been using `cargo vdev` pattern ever since Bruce added it, saves me from having to update the `.cargo/bin/vdev` binary whenever it changes - that might be a good reason to change that readme 🤔
